Draft of RAG documentation (#18)
rhoai-genaiops/lab-instructions: docs/6-rag/4-docling.md

**Docling** is an advanced document processing toolkit that converts all the things listed above into simple text (markdown) which our embedding model can understand.  
Essentially it's giving your RAG systems the ability to understand complex academic documents. Think of it as upgrading from basic text reading to intelligent document comprehension.

### The Three-Phase Intelligence Pipeline

**Phase 1: Document Analysis** 📄
```
PDF Input → Layout Detection → Structure Analysis → Content Extraction
```

**Phase 2: Content Enhancement** 🔧  
```
Raw Text → Table Extraction → Formula Recognition → Figure Processing
```

**Phase 3: RAG Integration** 🗄️
```
Intelligent Chunking → Vector Embeddings → Enhanced RAG Search
```

## 🧠 Why Document Intelligence Matters

Traditional RAG systems struggle with academic content:

**❌ Basic Text Extraction:**
- Loses table structure and data relationships
- Misses mathematical formulas and equations
- Ignores multi-column layouts and document hierarchy

**✅ Document Intelligence with Docling:**
- Preserves table data with proper structure
- Handles formulas and scientific notation correctly
- Maintains document layout and semantic relationships

> Consider a research paper with experimental results in tables - traditional RAG would lose this crucial data, but Docling preserves it for intelligent querying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a research paper with experimental results in tables - traditional RAG would lose this crucial data, but combined with Docling it gets preserved for intelligent querying.
```
